bpo-30419: DOC: Update missing information in  bdb docs (#1687)
python/cpython: Doc/library/bdb.rst

      Print the output of :meth:`bpformat` to the file *out*, or if it is
      ``None``, to standard output.

   :class:`Breakpoint` instances have the following attributes:

   .. attribute:: file

      File name of the :class:`Breakpoint`.

   .. attribute:: line

      Line number of the :class:`Breakpoint` within

>       :attr:`file <bdb.Breakpoint.file>`.

Reviewer: Since this is all indented under _class:: Breakpoint_, I think you should be able to just link with :attr:`` `file` ``. (Failing that, there is another shortcut: :attr:`` `~bdb.Breakpoint.file` ``.)

Author: Thanks!

   .. attribute:: temporary

>       True if :class:`Breakpoint` at the (file, line) is temporary.

Reviewer: I’m not familiar with this particular module, but it seems like these would read better if you dropped _the_, so they are just _at (file, line)_. Or do you need to move _the_ before _Breakpoint_?

Author: Thanks, I added an 'a' before Breakpoint.

   .. method:: canonic(filename)

      Return canonical form of *filename*.

      For real file names, the canonical form is an operating system dependent,
      :func:`case-normalized <os.path.normcase>` :func:`absolute path
      <os.path.abspath>`. A *filename* with angle brackets, such as `"<stdin>"`

>       generated in interactive mode, are returned unchanged.

Reviewer 2: "A filename ... is"  (not are) or "Filenames .... are"

Author: Thanks for catching that!

   .. method:: canonic(filename)

      Return canonical form of *filename*.

>       For real file names, the canonical form is an operating system dependent,

Reviewer: operating-system-dependent (dependent is an adjective, not a noun here)

Author: Thanks.

   Normally derived classes don't override the following methods, but they may
   if they want to redefine the definition of stopping and breakpoints.

   .. method:: is_skipped_line(module_name)

      Return True if *module_name* matches any skip pattern.

   .. method:: stop_here(frame)

      Return True if *frame* is below the starting frame in the stack.

   .. method:: break_here(frame)

      Return True if there is an effective breakpoint for this line.

      Check for line or function breakpoint and if in effect.  Delete temporary
      breakpoints based on information from :func:`effective`.

   .. method:: break_anywhere(frame)

      Return True if any breakpoint exists for *frame*'s filename.

   Derived classes should override these methods to gain control over debugger
   operation.

   .. method:: user_call(frame, argument_list)

      Called from :meth:`dispatch_call` if a break might stop inside the
      called function.

   .. method:: user_line(frame)

      Called from :meth:`dispatch_line` when either :meth:`stop_here` or
      :meth:`break_here` at a line.

   .. method:: user_return(frame, return_value)

>       Called from :meth:`dispatch_return` when return trap is set here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Called from :meth:`dispatch_return` when :meth:`stop_here` returns ``True``.
```
More consistent wording.

   Normally derived classes don't override the following methods, but they may
   if they want to redefine the definition of stopping and breakpoints.

   .. method:: is_skipped_line(module_name)

      Return True if *module_name* matches any skip pattern.

   .. method:: stop_here(frame)

      Return True if *frame* is below the starting frame in the stack.

   .. method:: break_here(frame)

      Return True if there is an effective breakpoint for this line.

>       Check for line or function breakpoint and if in effect.  Delete temporary

Reviewer: The first sentence doesn’t make much sense. The original wording at least makes grammatical sense. Is it clear what *frame* is without mentioning it?

Author: I need to defer to @terryjreedy for this suggestion and the ones for the user* functions.  

@vadmium, what we were trying to do was first add docstrings to bdb.py and then retrofit those docstrings back into the online docs.  I may not have applied the changes in the best way when trying to convert to markup, so I'll need his help to figure out how to make sense of it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Check whether a line or function breakpoint exists and is in effect.  Delete temporary
```
Agree the current wording is ungrammatical.

      breakpoints based on information from :func:`effective`.

   .. method:: break_anywhere(frame)

      Return True if any breakpoint exists for *frame*'s filename.

   Derived classes should override these methods to gain control over debugger
   operation.

   .. method:: user_call(frame, argument_list)

      Called from :meth:`dispatch_call` if a break might stop inside the
      called function.

   .. method:: user_line(frame)

      Called from :meth:`dispatch_line` when either :meth:`stop_here` or

>       :meth:`break_here` at a line.

Reviewer: _At a line_ makes no sense; what was wrong with the original?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      :meth:`break_here` returns ``True``.
```
Agree the new wording is ungrammatical, but "yield" in the old text is confusing because these functions aren't generators.

   .. method:: user_return(frame, return_value)

      Called from :meth:`dispatch_return` when return trap is set here.

   .. method:: user_exception(frame, exc_info)

      Called from :meth:`dispatch_exception` when :meth:`stop_here`

>       on an exception.

Reviewer: More nonsense :)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      returns ``True``.
```

      Stop when returning from the given frame.

>    .. method:: set_until(frame[, lineno=None])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   .. method:: set_until(frame, lineno=None)
```
The brackets are unnecessary, the default already indicates the param is optional.

.. function:: checkfuncname(b, frame)

   Return True if we should break here, depending on the way the breakpoint
   *b* was set.

   If it was set via line number, it checks if ``b.line`` is the same as the
   one in *frame*.  If the breakpoint was set via function name, we have to
   check we are in the right *frame* (the right function) and if we are on
   its first executable line.

.. function:: effective(file, line, frame)

   Determine if there is an effective (active) breakpoint at this line of code.
   Return a tuple of the breakpoint that was triggered and a boolean that
   indicates if it is ok to delete a temporary breakpoint.  Return

>    ``(None, None)`` if there is no matching breakpoint.

Reviewer 2: I want to put this in the standard format.  My suggestion:
"""Return (active (*file*, *line*) breakpoint, delete temporary flag) or (None, None).

The breakpoint is the first entry in Breakpoint.bplist[file, line] (which must exist) that is enabled and has neither a false condition nor positive ignore count.  The flag, meaning that a temporary breakpoint should be deleted, is False only when the condition cannot be evaluated (in which case, ignore count is ignored).  
"""
What do you think?  The docstring for effective() should also be replaced and the obsolete pair of comment lines above the def line deleted.

Author: I've made these changes.  I also made other changes to add all the attributes for Breakpoint and then use those as links in this description of `effective`.  Sorry to add so much to the second review, but I think it helps a lot in understanding the breakpoints.  One thing that I didn't say is that `ignore` would be set by the caller.  Not sure if I need to mention that it's a read/write attribute?

   .. method:: get_stack(f, t)

      Return a list of (frame, lineno) tuples in a stack trace, and a size.

>       List starts with the original calling frame, if there is one.  Size may
>       be the number of frames above or below *f*.

Reviewer 3: This is incorrect, the original frame is somewhere in the middle. From reading the code, I think this is right:

```suggestion
      The most recently called frame is last in the list. The size is the number
      of frames below the frame where the debugger was invoked.
```

   .. method:: get_stack(f, t)

>       Return a list of (frame, lineno) tuples in a stack trace and a size.

Reviewer: Does this need a comma before _and a size_? Are the tuples in the size or just in the stack trace?

Author: The output is ((stack trace), size).  So, it's a tuple of the form (list of tuples, int).   I've added the comma before "and a size".

.. function:: checkfuncname(b, frame)

   Return True if we should break here, depending on the way the
   :class:`Breakpoint` *b* was set.

   If it was set via line number, it checks if
   :attr:`b.line <bdb.Breakpoint.line>` is the same as the one in *frame*.
   If the breakpoint was set via
   :attr:`function name <bdb.Breakpoint.funcname>`, we have to check we are in
   the right *frame* (the right function) and if we are on its first executable
   line.

.. function:: effective(file, line, frame)

>    Return `(active breakpoint, delete temporary flag)` or `(None, None)` as the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Return ``(active breakpoint, delete temporary flag)`` or ``(None, None)`` as the
```
Single backticks don't have useful behavior in our ReST setup
